LLM is paramatizewd math functions
y = fθ(x)

LLM is stateless so we are appneding in message veriable -> conversation buffers, in a way its looks like memory short term memory

Short term memory implemented in chat
conversation concept -> it doesnot exist outside a conversation thread. 1 conversation is 1 boundry.
short term memory is thread scoped.

short term memory is fragile -> code reset/server crash -> to solve this persistance usage, database.

context window problem: 
-> maxium number of token the llm can process, the problem is that llm can be longer

Approach to solve: 
* trimming: only send 50 messages and sumarrization..
* hatayeko message lie the sumarized  problem. 

Short term memory are thread scoped so can be problem in user personalized. in every new conversation 
solution: 
* special tyoe of memory
Identify who the user is special , it has to be selective - long term memory

Types of long term memory
1. Eposidic memory - what happend - past events
what it stores
past events and experiences, usually tied to toem opr context

2. Semantic memory -- what is true, facts
Stoires, facts about the users facts, knowledge and stable information that are not tied to a single event.
why it exists

3. Procedural memory - how to dop things. 

how does long term work ?
4 steps: 
a. creation/update -> find out there is anuthing that has just happed remembering boynd the conversation, user messages, model response, tool coutcvomes. 
- extract memroy candidates
- filter out noise
- decides scope (user/agent/app)
- decides whether to:
    - Create a new memory
    - update an existing one
b. Storage: -> need to store in some area. db in key valu8e,m log or vector database 
3. retreival: -> find the current sistuation, what should i remember right now. if memory is required rthen we will search and memory stores and bing slective search
4. Injection: -> is be the part of the stm -> context -> LLM the models sees it just the input token

Key challanges faces:
- memory create which things has to be converted as there are lot of noise in a conversation. 
- Retriving the right memory at the right time. 
- orchestraing the entire system.

There are libs/manages  -> genai/agents memory layer
LangMem 
mem0
supermemory

Titan +. MIRAS 

CHECK POINTER will help to perform the state and store


context overflow problem: 
Trimming: 
-> 500 tokens max. threshold
llm.invoke() will check all message total token count should be smaller than threshold max token, we need to do trimming, last n messages will keep and igfnore the old messages. 
It will ignore delete other messages if token threshold exceed so that can be brkeaking conversation

second technics is summarization
recent wala n messages, we wont igonre old message instead send to another llm to generate the summary, and will send the combination of n messages, so context wont be erased. after summary we will delete the state. deletion is the prerequestis of the summarization


Long term memory: 
get the facts and relevant useful information for the user and store into db
Before answer retirve from the user perferences, personalization helps.

Langgraph => store base class -> base stores can create new memory, search , edt , delete.
Basestore -> InMemoryStore -> Ram store, quickly protype not for production grade.
BaseStore -> PostgresStore -> Store into production. langgraph-checkpoint-mysql for mysql
RedisStore -> for RedisStore


InMemoryStore

Dedublication: llm user message, existing memory current message memory extract and ask get if the memory exist or not.